The Event Object
================================================================================

[TOC]

About the Event Object
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The event object passed to JavaScript event handlers in appMode is normalized to 
provide for uniform cross-browser event handling and to provide some additional 
functionality.

Most of the normalized properties are reasonably standard and should need little 
explanation, it is however important to note that the normalized event object 
does not have all of the properties and methods of the original event object.

The original event object can be accessed via the event() method if you require 
access to any properties or methods that are not included in the normalized 
event.


Properties
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

bool    .altKey
:   true if the alt key was held when the event occurred.
            
bool    .ctrlKey
:   true if the ctrl key was held when the event occurred.
            
int     .offsetX
:   The horizontal coordinate of the event relative to the left edge of the 
    first ancestor element or of the first ancestor element with absolute or 
    relative positioning. *
            
int     .offsetY
:   The vertical coordinate of the event relative to the top edge of the first 
    ancestor element or of the first ancestor element with absolute or relative 
    positioning. *
            
int     .pageX
:   The horizontal coordinate of the event relative to the left edge of the 
    whole document.

int     .pageY
:   The vertical coordinate of the event relative to the top edge of the whole 
    document.
            
bool    .pseudo
:   True if the event object is a pseudo event object and was not generated by 
    an actual DOM event.
            
elm     .relatedTarget
:   The other element (if any) involved in the event.

elm     .relatedTargetWithId
:   The first ancestor element (of the relatedTarget element) which has an id 
    property.
            
bool    .returnValue
:   Set to false by the preventDefault() method and used by the event handler 
    system to prevent default actions. Use the preventDefault() method rather 
    than modifying this property.

bool    .shiftKey
:   true if the shift key was held when the event occurred.
                        
elm     .target
:   The element on which the event occurred.
        
elm     .targetWithId
:   The first ancestor element (of the target element) which has an id property.

string  .type
:   The event type. 

obj     .w3
:   A shortcut to the w3 runtime object.

int     .which
:   Which key (if any) was pressed.
            

Methods
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

obj     .event()
:   Returns the original event.
    
void    .preventDefault()
:   Prevent the default browser behaviour for an event.

void    .stopPropagation()
:   Stop propagation of an event.

Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            
### .offsetX & .offsetY

We use the value of layerX/Y when the original element does not support 
offsetX/Y properties. layerX/Y values are calculated based on the first ancestor 
which is positioned (relative or absolute) rather than on the first ancestor.
